---
layout: post
title: PPP on beaglebone using Option Icon
---

# Intro #
I have an Icon GlobeTrotter 322 that I'm wanting to use as an internet connection on a Beaglebone running a slightly modified Angstrom image built with OpenEmbedded.
This requires at the very least hso and usbserial kernel modules in working order with a proper modemmanager. 
The previous 2 posts talk about issues getting that working...

On to a working PPP connection.

# PPP Setup #

Here is the file /etc/ppp/peers/provider

    # print a bunch of useful stuff
    debug
    # the serial port to use
    /dev/ttyHS1
    #Baudrate
    115200
    # If i timeout or dont use it for <x> seconds close it
    idle 7200
    # Prevent the device from being used by others
    lock
    # Hardware handshake, not totally sure
    crtscts
    # Treat the dvice likea modem (it is one, afet all)
    modem
    # Allow any user to use the connection
    noauth
    # route traffic through ppp0 by default
    replacedefaultroute
    defaultroute
    # Use this chat script and print the cruft
    connect "/usr/sbin/chat -V -f /etc/ppp/beagle-chat"
    # uh, not really sure. Get an IP from net I think.
    noipdefault
    # this prints a bunch of stuff to stdio
    updetach
    # This will cause DNS servers to obe printed.
    # does not enable them for me.
    # usepeerdns
    # authenticate with ATT
    user ISP@CINGULAR1.COM
    password CINGULAR1
    # disable compression
    # novj

This file is pretty heavily commented and it would be laborious to discuss it any more outside of saying that it's a config file. 
There is no sequence so order doesn't matter. 
The tricky part for me was getting the user/password right.

And here is the file /etc/ppp/beagle-chat

    '' AT
    'OK' AT+CFUN=1
    'OK' ATD*99***1#

This chat script first turns the modem on, then dials PDP context 1. 
This context happens to already be configured in to the modem but you can create new ones with

    AT+CDGDCONT 

Each context will have a number which can replace the 1 in the ATD command.


# Using PPP #

I start PPP with the pon command. This always calls the `/etc/ppp/peers/provider` config file unless specified otherwise.

    root@beaglebone:~# pon
    
    NO CARRIER
    AT
    OK
    AT+CFUN=1
    OKScript /usr/sbin/chat -V -f /etc/ppp/beagle-chat finished (pid 419), status = 0x0
    Serial connection established.
    using channel 5
    Using interface ppp0
    Connect: ppp0 <--> /dev/ttyHS1
    rcvd [LCP ConfReq id=0x2 <mru 1600> <auth chap MD5> <magic 0x78efdbec> <asyncmap 0x0> <pcomp> <accomp>]
    sent [LCP ConfReq id=0x1 <asyncmap 0x0> <magic 0x65175adc> <pcomp> <accomp>]
    sent [LCP ConfAck id=0x2 <mru 1600> <auth chap MD5> <magic 0x78efdbec> <asyncmap 0x0> <pcomp> <accomp>]
    rcvd [LCP ConfAck id=0x1 <asyncmap 0x0> <magic 0x65175adc> <pcomp> <accomp>]
    rcvd [CHAP Challenge id=0x1 <3c4538cf898a59f7fa1c27717e148d6094f788de0ad8bf52915245601c5516f1b134749318b4f2f30060453f94>, name = "TTPCom GPRS"]
    sent [CHAP Response id=0x1 <2770bef88a6acc069d359aecfeaa22d8>, name = "ISP@CINGULAR1.COM"]
    rcvd [CHAP Success id=0x1 "TTP Com PPP - Password Verified OK"]
    CHAP authentication succeeded: TTP Com PPP - Password Verified OK
    CHAP authentication succeeded
    sent [CCP ConfReq id=0x1 <deflate 15> <deflate(old#) 15> <bsd v1 15>]
    sent [IPCP ConfReq id=0x1 <compress VJ 0f 01> <addr 0.0.0.0>]
    rcvd [LCP ProtRej id=0x0 80 fd 01 01 00 0f 1a 04 78 00 18 04 78 00 15 03 2f 32]
    Protocol-Reject for 'Compression Control Protocol' (0x80fd) received
    rcvd [IPCP ConfRej id=0x1 <compress VJ 0f 01>]
    sent [IPCP ConfReq id=0x2 <addr 0.0.0.0>]
    rcvd [IPCP ConfReq id=0x1 <addr 10.0.0.1>]
    sent [IPCP ConfAck id=0x1 <addr 10.0.0.1>]
    rcvd [IPCP ConfNak id=0x2 <addr 10.72.44.215>]
    sent [IPCP ConfReq id=0x3 <addr 10.72.44.215>]
    rcvd [IPCP ConfAck id=0x3 <addr 10.72.44.215>]
    replacing old default route to eth0 [139.78.79.254]
    local  IP address 10.72.44.215
    remote IP address 10.0.0.1

Now I get a ppp0 interface with the address provided and you can see my default route is changed. 
Check this with ifconfig.

    root@beaglebone:~# ifconfig
    eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:18:31:E1:3A:FD  
              inet addr:139.78.79.73  Bcast:139.78.79.255  Mask:255.255.252.0
              inet6 addr: fe80::218:31ff:fee1:3afd/64 Scope:Link
              UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
              RX packets:56868 errors:0 dropped:4959 overruns:0 frame:0
              TX packets:1048 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
              collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
              RX bytes:7473251 (7.1 MiB)  TX bytes:134958 (131.7 KiB)
    
    lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
              inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
              inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
              UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
              RX packets:32 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
              TX packets:32 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
              collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
              RX bytes:1792 (1.7 KiB)  TX bytes:1792 (1.7 KiB)
    
    ppp0      Link encap:Point-to-Point Protocol  
              inet addr:10.72.44.215  P-t-P:10.0.0.1  Mask:255.255.255.255
              UP POINTOPOINT RUNNING NOARP MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
              RX packets:4 errors:1 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
              TX packets:5 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
              collisions:0 txqueuelen:3 
              RX bytes:40 (40.0 B)  TX bytes:61 (61.0 B)

At first my nameservers did not get changed, so I use Google's DNS servers. 
That's done by editing /etc/resolv.conf and adding the lines

    nameserver 8.8.8.8
    nameserver 8.8.4.4

Originally I had `nameserver 127.0.0.1` which seemed to work over ethernet, but didn't work with the ppp0. Not sure why.

So now I have a ppp0 connection that I can use to connect my beaglebone to the internet pretty much automatically.
