---
layout: default
title: Setting up PPP on beaglebone + Option Icon Globetrotter
---

I've been learning about PPP to set up a network interface on my beaglebone using an Option Icon Globetrotter 3G modem. 
My understanding thus far is summarized in the following:

* The 3G modem handles layer 1 (sending bits to a tower)
* I need PPP (point-to-point protocol) to set up a flow and link to the 3G data network.

    * The network operator has a few access points around the country that act as gateways between the cell network and the internet
    * This is the primary use of PPP.
    * I think they use a NAT to give you an IP, so it's not really public. You probably have to initiate all connections.

* PPP has a couple of commands

    * chat
        Chat seems to take a file with a list of AT commands and rudimentary flow control (pause, say) and executes them
    * call
        Call takes a list of config settings and sets up the PPP connection based on them.
        This sets up serial comm (baud rate, modem location) as well as networking (route, nameservers, ip)
        I've also seen most call scripts so far have a chat command embedded in them on the "connect" setting
    * pon/poff
        turns on/off pppd. This seems to basically be a combination of  call/chat that uses a script in /etc/ppp/peers/provider by default.
    * You still rely on IP + TCP/UDP to send packets.

So far, I tested that my modem does in fact enter in to PPP mode by connecting through the TTY interface.

    $ miniterm.py -b 115200 /dev/ttyHS0
    AT
    OK
    AT+CFUN=1
    OK
    ATD*99***#1
    CONNECT
    <snipped random bytes>

Then I used [this as a cheat sheet/reference](http://www.pharscape.org/GlobeTrotterGPRShowto#_Toc83808103) for setting up my /etc/ppp/peers/provider file.
My file so far looks like this

    /dev/ttyHS0
    115200
    idle 7200
    lock
    modem
    noauth
    replacedefaultroute
    defaultroute
    noipdefault
    updetach
    usepeerdns
    novj

So I start ppp with 

    $ pon
    Using interface ppp0
    Connect: ppp0 <--> /dev/ttyHS0
    LCP: timeout sendign Config-Requests
    Connection terminated.
    Receive serial link is not 8-bit clean:
    Problem: all had bit 7 set to 0
    Modem hangup
    
Clearly, this is not working. So I dug into the man pages and it looks like "pon" is another way of running "pppd call".
So I made a chat script:

      '' AT
      '' AT+CFUN=1
      '' ATD*99***1#
      '' CONNECT
      
I actually don't understand the syntax yet. 
I was just doing a "move fast break things before bed time" kind of thing. 
Now I run 

      $ pon
      Serial connection established.
      Using interface ppp0
      Connect: ppp0 <--> /dev/ttyHS0
      LCP: timeout sending Config-Requests
      Connection terminated.
      Modem hangup
      
It's still not working, but I think I'm making progress. 
Tomorrow I'll hopefully get it connecting and create a new post with stuff that actually works. 
